add the dojo history (#18)
dojo-developpement-paris/dojo-developpement-paris.github.io: history.md

[Laurent Bossavit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laurent_Bossavit) posted [the following text](https://web.archive.org/web/20040605124346/http://bossavit.com/thoughts/) :

> Object dojo
>
> If I want to learn Judo, I will enroll at the nearest dojo, and show up for one hour every week for the next two years, at the end of which I may opt for a more assiduous course of study to progress in the art. Years of further training might be rewarded with a black belt, which is merely the sign of ascent to a different stage of learning. No master ever stops learning.
>
> If I want to learn object programming, my employer will pack me off to a three-day Java course picked from this year's issue of a big training firm's catalog.
>
> What's wrong with this picture ?
>
> Dave Thomas has got the right idea with his [Kata](https://web.archive.org/web/20040607052051/http://pragprog.com/pragdave/Practices/Kata), but it needs to be taken further. What I want is an object dojo.

## Shaping the dojo

During a meal between Laurent Bossavit and [Emmanuel Gaillot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emmanuel_Gaillot) :

* Emmanuel asked Laurent <q>This dojo stuff, does it was a joke ?</q>

> * Laurent answered <q>It is very serious.</q>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Laurent answered <q>No, I was being quite serious.</q>
```

* Emmanuel replied <q>I think it's great, let's do it !</q>

On [<time datetime="2004-11-02">2004-11-02</time>](https://web.archive.org/web/20081118080350/http://xp-france.net/cgi-bin/wiki.pl?DojoDeveloppement/DeuxNovembre2004),
there was an initial discussion
about the shape of the dojo
with several people.

During this discussion,
it was decided that the dojo would not be owned by a company.

> The dojo will need a logistical support (room, projector, chairs …),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dojo will need logistical support (room, projector, chairs …),
```

They started using [Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/dojo-developpement-paris/),
since the session of [<time datetime="2015-01-19">2015-01-19</time>](https://www.meetup.com/fr-FR/dojo-developpement-paris/events/219806503/).

## Lockdown

The last dojo before the lockdown was [<time datetime="2020-03-12">2020-03-12</time>](https://www.meetup.com/dojo-developpement-paris/events/269323464/).

The lockdown paused the dojo.

There was an attempt to resume online
from [<time datetime="2021-01-28">2021-01-28</time>](https://www.meetup.com/dojo-developpement-paris/events/275980672/) to [<time datetime="2021-06-17">2021-06-17</time>](https://www.meetup.com/dojo-developpement-paris/events/278752692/).

The dojo has been back in person since [<time datetime="2022-05-13">2022-05-13</time>](https://www.meetup.com/dojo-developpement-paris/events/285807516/).

## Mob Programming

As usual, they practised as a whole group.

On one occasion, [Woody Zuill](https://woodyzuill.com/) took part
and said something like :

> You should use this organisation in your company !

> Since he worked at Hunter Industries,
> developed this type of organisation,
> and then popularised it as [Mob Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_programming#Mob_programming),
> on <time datetime="2012-09-06">2012-09-06</time>, he wrote [his first post about it](https://mobprogramming.org/hello-world/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since he worked at Hunter Industries and,
inspired by this type of organisation,
created and popularised [Mob Programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Team_programming#Mob_programming),
on <time datetime="2012-09-06">2012-09-06</time>, he wrote [his first post about it](https://mobprogramming.org/hello-world/).
```

Author: j'ai retiré la section en attendant d'etre certain de savoir comment ça s'est passé
